So I'm going to show you how to save the output of a command into a variable which can be useful during
shell scripting, because you might want to save whatever output a command produces and then use--manipulate
or only shows certain parts of it.
So there's two different syntaxes for this:
so you use the same output variable name equals, but then you can do backticks and whatever command
you have in there will be saved as the output.
So that would be the same as running just running the ls command, except we just did it in a variable.
The other syntax you can use is a dollar sign parentheses.
I like that syntax a little better:
it's easier for me to read because it's using the dollar sign already so that I know it's a variable and
then I can go:
'echo $output2'.  Let's put this into a script now, so let's make a new script called 'cmd_output_vars.sh'
So you can actually use the touch command just to make a empty file.
It's just a blank, empty file.
But let's get the real path to that folder.
And if you notice, I can you can start typing--
I didn't show you this before, but you can type the start of the word and then tab and then it will
autocomplete for you.
Just a little,
nice trick to know.
So that gives me the--the full path to the thing.
If you're on Linux and you don't have that path--real path command, just type 'pwd' and you can get
what it is--what directory you're in and then just add that on there.
Once you have that full path name, just copy it there and try this command: 'basename' and then paste
in that whole path.
So that gives you just the file name based on the full path.  Knowing that, let's make a script here:
'vim cmd' then tab will auto autocomplete that for you and it's just our empty file that we made.
So let's do
'#!/bin/bash'
' this saves command output to a variable'
So I'll do 'scriptpath=
/Users/goku/cmd_output_vars.sh'
So that's--this is just a script path, but we're just putting a string in there and then we'll make
a new--another new variable called 'filename', and then we'll use this dollar syntax and we'll
try our basename command and then we'll use our variable again.
So basically, we're going to be running the basename command against whatever's in this variable,
which is this path, which we define right there.
So you can save the output of any command into the into a variable, but once you get to like, you know,
commands that have different columns or special characters, it can get a little bit sticky.
So don't go too much into depth on that.
But just know that you can do this.
But it works--
This works best for just real simple--simple text strings to save them as a variable.
So escape, ":wq"
'chmod 755'...and you can use this little special syntax to use the last file or last
argument that you did.
command-'./cmd_output_vars.sh'
We actually didn't do any output there,
so let's do that.
'echo'--we'll use our escape here '\$filename is $filename.'
So there: our filename variable, is cmd_output_vars.sh